Add introductory article for the plugin (#5)
clash-lang/clash-formal.org: content/news/02-plugin-announcement.md

---
title: "ghc-typelist-proof-assist's new API is out!"
date: "2025-06-06"
description: "Announcement for the GHC typelits plugin"
disable_comments: false
author: "diegodiv"
authorbox: true # Optional, enable authorbox for specific post
toc: false
mathjax: true
---

> Two weeks ago, we released a new API for [ghc-typelits-proof-assist](https://github.com/QBayLogic/ghc-typelits-proof-assist). It's due

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Two weeks ago, we released a new API for [ghc-typelits-proof-assist](https://github.com/clash-lang/ghc-typelits-proof-assist). It's due
```
?

```haskell
usingRewrite :: forall n m. (n + 1 <= m) => SNat n -> SNat m -> Int
usingRewrite | Rewrite <- using @(Lemma n m) = demand

usingApply :: forall n m. (n + 1 <= m) => SNat n -> SNat m -> Int
usingApply = apply @(Lemma n m) demand

usingAuto :: forall n m. (n + 1 <= m) => SNat n -> SNat m -> Int
usingAuto = demand

demand :: n <= m => SNat n -> SNat m -> Int
demand _ _ = 3
```

The added value here lies in the fact that now, if we don't provide a proof
for `Lemma`, the code will refuse to compile. There's no `unsafeCoerce`-shaped
escape hatch, your duty is to provide a proof - either a Coq or Agda proof.

So let's just do that:
```haskell
{-/ Preamble (Coq):
Require Import Coq.Arith.PeanoNat.
/-}

{-/ Proof (Coq): Lemma
  intros.
  apply le_S in H.
  apply le_S_n.
  rewrite <- PeanoNat.Nat.add_0_l at 1.
  rewrite PeanoNat.Nat.add_comm.
  rewrite PeanoNat.Nat.add_succ_l.
  rewrite PeanoNat.Nat.add_comm.
  rewrite <- PeanoNat.Nat.add_succ_l.
  rewrite PeanoNat.Nat.add_comm.
  apply H.
/-}
```

Et hop! Now that you provided a proof, your code compiles - without having to
resort to lowly coercions. Isn't that nice?

## Next steps: using the plugin and potentially contributing

> The plugin is available [on Github](https://github.com/QBayLogic/ghc-typelits-proof-assist)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The plugin is available [on Github](https://github.com/clash-lang/ghc-typelits-proof-assist)
```
?
